# Keys to Good Redux Performance

[Source](https://blog.isquaredsoftware.com/2017/01/practical-redux-part-6-connected-lists-forms-and-performance/)

- `mapState` functions should run as fast as possible. This means that a `mapState` function should minimize the amount of work it has to do, and do that work quickly. Avoid doing very expensive work in `mapState` unless absolutely necessary! This includes complex filtering and transformations. Memoized selector functions, such as the ones created by `reselect`, can ensure that expensive work is only done when something actually changed.
- Returning the same variable references as part of the `mapState` result is necessary to eliminate wasted re-renders. That means that if you're returning the same types of data at the same keys from `mapState`, but the keys point to different variable references each time, `connect` will think things have changed and re-render your component. One of the most common examples of this is using `Array.map()` inside of `mapState`. Every time you use `map()`, you create a new array reference. Again, memoized selectors can help with this by ensuring that the same values are returned.
- Third, overall performance is a balance between the overhead of more `mapState` calls, and time spent by React re-rendering. Redux subscriptions are `O(n)` - every additional subscriber means a bit more work every time an action is dispatched. Fortunately, per the earlier quote from the FAQ, benchmarks have shown that the cost of more connected components is generally less than the cost of more wasted re-rendering.
